# Solana NFT Minter

All packages are official, so no need to worry about the security. Don't use **any online AI assistant** during the process to guarantee absolute security.

## Expense

Make sure you have at least 0.02 SOL in your wallet.

| Process | Balance |
| --- | --- |
| Begin | 0.036597503 SOL |
| After Uploading | 0.036470458 SOL |
| After Minting | 0.0168139 SOL |

## Usage

### Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Convert your key

> ATTENTION: DON'T SHARE YOUR PRIVATE KEY TO ANYONE!

Normally, the private key in your wallet is the string of base58, you can convert it to the array format(Just like the json generated by solana cli) by using the following command:

```bash
# paste your private key as `examplePrivateKey` in script. 
# All packages are official, no need to worry about the security. Remember don't use any online AI assistant.
node convert-key.js
```

This file supports the conversion of the array format, the base58, base64 and hex format. All the format will be converted as the universal array format.

### Mint NFT

Save the `converted-keypair.json` to `~/.config/solana/id.json` (The default path, you can also customize `getKeypairFromFile()`).

Adjust some parameters(marked as `[Change your picture path]`, `[Change your metadata]`, `[Change your NFT name]`, `[Change your NFT symbol]`, `[Change your seller fee basis points]`) in `app.js` and run the script.

```bash
node app.js
```

Then you can check your NFT (https://explorer.solana.com/address/NFTaddress) on the Solana Explorer.

## One more thing

Mint Authority and Freeze Authority are generate by metaplex PDA which is a special public key without private key(they are not on Ed25519 curve). You can just treat it as a index. For more info, you can refer to the [official docs](https://solana.com/docs/core/pda) and the [stackchange](https://solana.stackexchange.com/questions/7761/does-the-authority-of-compressed-nfts-work-the-same-as-normal-nfts).

## Reference

https://solana.com/en/developers/courses/tokens-and-nfts/nfts-with-metaplex